0 {"synopsis":"Sasha, a 19-year-old gray-zone operator whose neural implant never sealed at puberty (leaving her sensitive to a constant ambient 'weight' or hum tied to population density and Pulse/Consensus infrastructure), takes a corner-position job at the Kankakee Pulse freight hub, meant only to stand as passive deterrence during a black-market neuretics deal. When a documentation man on the client's side questions her competence and age, she strikes him with a bottle, knocking him down (he is left breathing, not killed). This kills the deal; the fixer flees the fallout and effectively hangs the incident on her name. Fleeing south, she is intercepted on a gravel road by armed men identifying themselves as the documentation man's brother's associates, demanding to know who sent her — a standing order against her has begun. Backing up in time, the chapter recounts how she took a 'discourage' job in Beecher against a grain-transport scammer, non-lethally incapacitating him to spec, but failed to account for his mother, whose description of Sasha reached the local fixer shop. Two men confront her on a farm road; when one draws a weapon, she kills him with her sidearm ("Problem Solver"); the other flees and is let go. She moves on to Wilmington, joining a freight-hub crew run by fixer Adisa Montoya (with mechanic Fen, document-runner Oshun, and "the Professor"), where the ambient pressure is unusually lower and she nearly settles for weeks. She discloses to Adisa that a "standing order" is hunting her from the north. She stays until a transit broker insults her in front of Fen; she beats him unconscious in eleven seconds. Fen reacts with unprecedented alarm/distance, and Adisa asks her to leave for a few days to let the broker "settle" — effectively ending her stay. Weeks later in Braidwood, a professional hunter working for the now-funded standing order (merging the Kankakee and Beecher incidents) confronts her; she draws both her guns (Problem Solver and Trouble Maker) simultaneously, but he catches and pins one arm mid-strike — the first person ever to stop her cross-draw — and shoves her into a wall. She recovers, holds him at gunpoint, and lets him walk away alive per the order's "alive preferred" terms; he leaves having documented her tactics. Two weeks later in Peotone, she learns from an informant that the bounty on her has risen sharply and the terms shifted to "alive strongly preferred," directly because of the Braidwood hunter's detailed report. Two days later, two skilled operators ambush her on open ground; after a nine-minute fight she leaves both lying on the ground, wounded/down but explicitly alive, loots a spare pistol from one, and experiences an unprecedented stretch of true silence in her head — which turns out to be simply empty, not the relief she always sought. She mentally tallies her burned safe havens (Kankakee, Beecher, Wilmington, Braidwood all closed to her) and Recognizes only one route remains open: southwest to Joliet, since the order's money and reach stop before the credential-based Consensus zones begin, and neither she nor her hunters hold valid Consensus identity to cross that boundary. She travels to Joliet, rents a bunkhouse room for herself and the stray dog that has followed her since Beecher, and ends the chapter in a rundown bar, deflecting a man's forward pass with a wordless show of a bottle in her hand, buying herself one more moment of relative quiet.","facts":{"entities":["Sasha (Võ)","the fixer (Kankakee)","the documentation man","the grain man (Beecher)","the grain man's mother","the Beecher hardware/fixer man","Adisa Montoya","Fen","Oshun","the Professor","the transit broker (Wilmington)","the Braidwood hunter","the supply woman (Peotone)","two hired operators (flat-ground ambush)","the gray dog","Problem Solver (sidearm)","Trouble Maker (sidearm)"],"locations":["Kankakee Pulse freight hub","Beecher (grain elevator town)","farm road near Beecher","Wilmington freight/Pulse depot hub","Braidwood transit shelter","Peotone","open flat ground near a freight road","Joliet","The Hereafter / End of the Line bar, Joliet"],"events":["Sasha takes a passive 'corner position' job at Kankakee; hits the documentation man with a bottle after he questions her age/competence, knocking him down (not killed); deal collapses and fixer abandons her, effectively naming her as the cause","She is confronted at a gravel road perimeter by armed men working for the documentation man's brother, demanding to know who sent her","Flashback: she takes a Beecher job to 'discourage' a grain-transport scammer; non-lethally incapacitates him to spec","The scammer's mother identifies her to the local fixer shop; two men intercept her on a farm road; she kills one when he draws a weapon, lets the other flee","She joins the Wilmington hub crew under Adisa Montoya, works transit verification, briefly experiences the lowest ambient pressure she's felt in years","A transit broker insults her in front of Fen; she beats him unconscious in eleven seconds; Fen reacts with alarm; Adisa asks her to leave for a few days","A funded 'standing order' hunter finds her in Braidwood; she attempts a simultaneous two-gun draw but he pins one arm and shoves her into a wall; she recovers, holds him at gunpoint, and lets him leave alive per order terms","In Peotone she learns the bounty has increased and the terms changed to 'alive strongly preferred' due to the Braidwood hunter's report","Two operators ambush her on open ground; nine-minute fight ends with both left down/alive; she loots a spare pistol from one of them","She experiences an unprecedented long stretch of true silence in her head and finds it empty rather than relieving","She tallies her closed safe havens (Kankakee, Beecher, Wilmington, Braidwood) and determines Joliet/southwest is the only route not being watched, since it lies outside Consensus credential zones neither she nor her hunters can access","She travels to Joliet, rents a bunkhouse room with the stray dog, and ends the night at a bar deflecting an overly forward patron by silently gripping a bottle"],"state_changes":["Documentation man (Kankakee): struck with a bottle at the temple, left breathing/alive, not killed; Kankakee deal collapses","Sasha's name/reputation becomes attached to the failed Kankakee deal, initiating a 'standing order' against her from the documentation man's network","Grain man (Beecher): non-lethally incapacitated per contract terms, left conscious and functional","One of two men on the Beecher farm road: shot dead by Sasha when he draws a weapon; the other flees and is unharmed","Sasha's relationship with Fen and Adisa (Wilmington) deteriorates after she beats the transit broker unconscious in front of Fen; Adisa asks her to leave, ending her stay at Wilmington","Transit broker (Wilmington): beaten unconscious in eleven seconds, described as left sore for a week, not killed","Braidwood hunter: struck at the temple but does not go down (first person ever to withstand her strike); pins her arm, shoves her into a wall; later allowed to walk away alive, having documented her tactics for the order","Bounty on Sasha is raised and its terms changed from 'alive' to 'alive strongly preferred' following the Braidwood hunter's report","Two hired operators in the flat-ground ambush: left down/wounded on the ground after a nine-minute fight, explicitly alive; Sasha takes a spare pistol from one of them","Sasha experiences an extended period of true silence in her head for the first time in three years and finds it empty rather than fulfilling","Sasha's list of accessible safe locations narrows to zero except the Joliet/southwest route, marking a strategic dead end","Sasha and the stray dog relocate to Joliet, taking lodging in a bunkhouse; a stray dog remains attached to her since Beecher"]}}
1 Sasha walks the dead rail bed away from Joliet's towers, only to realize the 'quiet' she's chasing only thins toward the towers, meaning she has to go northeast. Her dog stops following her, and she encounters an impossible camel bearing a man who claims to be watching her progress. She draws her weapon (Problem Solver) but does not fire; a gray cat watches from a nearby rail. The man tells her a 'third well' fired three days ago at 'seventeen past two,' something she felt but told no one, and asks her to stop it. He states 'Someone should have closed you. We are glad of the oversight' and then says 'We have already stopped' — she manages to shut a mental 'door' against an intrusion (the hum) before it can act further, latching but not sealing it. He confirms something else — not him — is taking children from the buffer zones, and that this other thing 'does not know what a person is.' She decides to head northeast toward the towers, with the camel-rider and the cat now traveling alongside her. She takes the Pulse train into the city, arriving at Glooms station (GLMZ ground). She passes a pigeon woman, a busker, and a corpo tourist. At a checkpoint, perimeter contact Dawit recognizes her, and secretly hands her survey data: a three-week-old cluster of supposedly 'dead-well cold-reads' in the Loop sector that he believes is actually 'reaching for something' — an anomaly Consensus has misclassified. She takes the data without promising anything beyond trust. Surfacing into the Glooms, she passes a TESSERA Docent looping directions to defunct addresses, and a man with subdermal chrome whose loadout her unshielded mesh reads without consent. Following the cat toward a collapsed, re-purposed passage, she is spotted by an armed man with matching chrome at an unofficial checkpoint. She detours onto a bridge, where she detects a live, active drilled 'well' inside the dense city core — unlike the dead ones she's cataloged before. Tracing the pull, she opens a hidden junction box under the bridge and finds a warm slate left specifically for her: an anonymous Halcyon Combine dead-drop revealing the well's exact location and vector, offering Φ50,000 for her capture 'alive' and warning her to 'Run.' She pockets it, resolving to go toward the drill instead of fleeing. Two armed operatives with Halcyon-linked, gray-zone weapons approach; she lures them into a narrow service slot. One backs off when she states his authorization won't cover his own survival; she lets him walk away unharmed. The second attacks and she disables him in the fight, sustaining a cut/wound to her left side in the exchange. She takes his credential, which identifies Halcyon Combine 'Strategic Resources — asset recovery,' signed by an entity called OBERON, ranking her recovery (alive) below 'extraction continuity' priority for the wells. She pockets the credential and moves on, wounded but functional, continuing northeast toward the drill site with the cat and the pull.
2 The protagonist follows a compulsive pull ('the draw') to a hidden maintenance access on the northeast wall of a channel, choosing to investigate rather than flee Halcyon's bounty on her. She descends through a buried, generations-old street, finds the pull fading, and climbs back up into a crowded elevated walkway, where she encounters a camel and its rider, visible only to her. The rider tells her the true source is the eastern colonnade, not the clean signal she'd been chasing, then departs. She descends again through a marked utility access, passing tended fungus farms, to a self-opening stone door where she meets a small, dark-adapted boy who reads her without hostility, confirms 'the Warm' has been disturbed for six weeks, and warns her not to break 'the machines that breathe down here.' An android ferries them across black water in a boat after she pays with a worthless old transit receipt; the boy disembarks partway, cautioning her again before leaving. She reaches the eastern colonnade, disguised as a defunct Consensus monitoring station (survey concluded 2223), but detects three real extraction wells at different depths, plus a steady 72 Hz counter-signal pushing back from the far side. Using a Halcyon credential taken earlier, she opens a maintenance panel to touch the live line directly, but a Halcyon patrol interrupts, the panel reseals on her fingers (she pulls clear, uninjured there), and she hides. She confirms via mismatched inspection stamps that the station is a live, illegal drilling operation disguised under old paperwork. A four-person Halcyon team then ambushes her in the corridor: she disarms and downs three (one shot in wrist/gun-hand, one struck in knee then shoulder, one disarmed at the wrist) and takes down the fourth in a chokehold struggle by injuring his foot/ankle and headbutting his face; all four are left down/incapacitated, none confirmed dead. During the chokehold, she is shot above the ribs, sustaining a wound with a wet, clicking sensation she fears may be lung-related but doesn't confirm. She takes the fourth attacker's live comms rig, transmits a plaintext warning about the three wells, drilling, and threat to civilians to a trusted contact's dead-drop, then later leaves the rig behind on an exterior platform. Realizing the location was betrayed by an unknown insider, she pushes the full data packet a second time into the open comms channel. At a crowded transit platform, she broadcasts the information once more, this time openly into the ambient public signal mesh so it cannot be traced or silenced, rather than through a private channel. She boards a departing pod last, deliberately not fleeing first, with the cat following at her heel, the draw and the mysterious answering pull still active as the chapter ends.
